---
layout: post
title: IRS delays $600 payment reporting threshold
author: jane
categories:
- IRS
image: "/assets/images/irs.jpg"
tags:
- featured
date: 2022-12-26 05:00:00 +0000

---
The IRS [**announced**](https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/irs-announces-delay-for-implementation-of-600-reporting-threshold-for-third-party-payment-platforms-forms-1099-k) it is delaying it’s implementation of new rules that will require third-party settlement organizations such as Cashapp, Paypal and Venmo to report any payments above $600. As a result, third-party settlement businesses will no longer be required to report transactions from 2022 that cross the $600 threshold.

Under the new law, beginning January 1, 2023, third-party settlement organizations will be required to report network transactions paid to any participating payee that exceed a minimum threshold of $600 in aggregate payments, regardless of the number of transactions. A participating payee, in the case of a third-party network transaction, is any person who accepts payment from a third-party settlement organization for a business transaction.

According to Acting IRS Commissioner Doug O’Donnell, the additional time will help taxpayers ease into the new system.

> _“To help smooth the transition and ensure clarity for taxpayers, tax professionals and industry, the IRS will delay implementation of the 1099-K changes. The additional time will help reduce confusion during the upcoming 2023 tax filing season and provide more time for taxpayers to prepare and understand the new reporting requirements.”_

The previous threshold was for more than 200 transactions per year, exceeding an aggregate amount of $20,000. The IRS claims the new law is not intended to track “personal transactions” such as sharing the cost of a car ride or meal, birthday or holiday gifts, or paying a family member or another for a household bill.